Frequent CUDA Kernel Sequences
==============================

Consider a scenario where a sequence of CPU ops is called repeatedly in the
code. E.g. this behavior is commonly exhibited in a transformer architecture
with a large encoder or decoder stack. Suppose the user wants to know the most
frequent CUDA kernel sequences originating from an operator. Identifying these
frequent CUDA kernel sequences and their corresponding CPU ops provides
insights into which kernels would be ideal candidates for fusion.

This feature finds the sequences of most frequent CUDA kernels launched for any
specified operator. It generates a new trace file which overlays the top k
identified patterns on the original trace file. Searching for the keyword
``Patterns`` in the new trace file highlights the relevant CPU and GPU ops. The
highlighted events indicate where to look for opportunities to fuse CUDA
kernels or CPU ops.

.. image:: ../_static/overlaid_trace.png

This analysis is done on a single rank as the CPU and GPU ops are expected to
be the same across different ranks.

.. code-block:: python

    analyzer = TraceAnalysis(trace_dir = "traces/")
    
    cuda_sequences_df = analyzer.get_frequent_cuda_kernel_sequences(
        operator_name = "aten::linear",
        output_dir = "/tmp/"
    )

The minimum length of the CUDA kernel sequence that should be identified can be
specified using the ``min_pattern_len`` argument and the ``top_k`` argument
allows the user to specify the top k patterns in terms of frequency to be
overlaid on the new trace file.

The output of the `get_frequent_cuda_kernel_sequences
<../api/trace_analysis_api.html#hta.trace_analysis.TraceAnalysis.get_frequent_cuda_kernel_sequences>`_
is a dataframe containing a pipe separated string of the CUDA kernels
originating from the CPU operator along with their frequency and duration of
the CPU ops and GPU kernels.

.. image:: ../_static/frequent_cuda_sequences_df.png

Adding the frequent pattern annotations in the trace file, as seen in the trace
screenshot above increases the trace file size considerably. In order to keep
the trace file size reasonable HTA creates a dictionary of all kernel names. The
keys in the dictionary are integers and the values are kernel names. The
overlaid trace file uses these keys to mark CPU ops which are not in the
operator search path. To view the dictionary click on the PyTorch Profiler
thread with thread id 0.

.. image:: ../_static/overlaid_trace_with_dictionary.png
